# generator-di-pyoperator

Yeoman generator for developing and testing standalone/offline SAP Data Intelligence python operators. 

The main features are

* Downloading from Data Intelligence instances and
* Uploading the operators
* Providing a 'mock-api'-package
* Creating operator python script if it does not exist
* Adding 'mock-api'-imports for offline development
* Creating a separate test script for testing the operator-script
* Providing a 'operator-test' package for mimicking inport-data

** ATTENTION**: This only works properly for operators created within a package, this means when creating a new operator the name should be preceded by a package-name like ```<package>.<operator>```.


## Usage

### CLI call
```yo di-operator [--init] [--overwrite]```

```--init``` creates the folders needed for the project and saves the 'mock-di-api.py' to 'utils/. You only need this option for initializing the project. Attention: If you have modified 'mock-di-api' it will be overridden.

```--overwrite``` creates the script.py and script_test.py newly and overwrites existing python scripts. 



### Prompts

1. Download from DI or Upload to DI (stored)  
2. SAP Data Intelligence URL (stored)
3. Tenant (stored, default = 'default')
4. User (stored): Sap Data Intelligence user of Workspace
5. Password (stored): Sap Data Intelligence user password of Workspace
6. Operator (stored): Operator name (=folder name in vflow)


## Installation 

### System Management Command-Line Client (vctl) 
The whole interaction works with vctl. Please have a look to the [documentation](https://help.sap.com/viewer/0b99871a1d994d2ea89598fe59d16cf9/3.0.latest/en-US/b13e0b4fe2574b3881e3c7ef1ad2a640.html) for downloading the script. 

### YEOMAN
Yeoman is a scaffolding tool creating the framework and templates that you need for a quick start. The generator is based on YEOMAN and you find more information who to write yeoman generators on [yeoman.io](https://yeoman.io/authoring/).

1. Installing ```npm```, a JavaScript software registry and package installation tool 
    * MacOs: ```brew install node``` 
2. Installing yeoman
    * ```npm install -g yo````
3. Installing the di-pyoperator generator
    * ```npm install -g generator-di-pyoperator```

### Local SAP Data Intelligence Operator deployment

For developing the operators locally you do not need a git repository. I have created a personal gitHub repository for all my custom operators that I clone. Most of the python-IDEs might have an integrated git and a remote repository integration, at least VSCode and PyCharm does. 

0. Create Git - Repository <project>
1. Clone repository locally or make project directory <project>
2. ```cd project````
3. Run yo-generator for preparing local DI operator development 
```yo di-pyoperator```


## Details of the di-pyoperator Generator

The whole intention of this project is to ease the development of Python operators by connecting a local IDE with an SAP Data Intelligence instance. Because there is no connection with an DI instance except during the download and upload process you need to mock the APIs of DI. In addtion to this I thought some code structure might be helpful when creating an operator script. The premise is that most Python operators are working with data provided as a csv-byte stream, message or message.table therefore the scaffold code is providing utilities for this kind of formats. Of course you can always remove the unused code.  

## Creates Project Folder Structure

* ```operators``` - where all the the Data Intelligence operators are stored
* ```utils``` - that stores the support packages **mock_di_api** and **operator_test** 
* ```testdata``` - that keeps all test data for the operator. For each operator a separate folder is created


## Download operator-Files

di-pyoperator downloads all operator files from the SAP Data Intelligence user workspace to the project folder 

```<project>/operators/<operator-package>/<operator>````

## Operator Script File

This release is not supporting the operator development from scratch but is based of the upfront operator creation in the Data Intelligence modeler. If nothing is added to the script-editor in the modeler then no script-file is created by Data Intelligence. 

If there is no script-file to which the operator.json attribute ```config:script```is referencing to a new ```script.py``` is created with the necessary scaffolding. 

```
# First 3 lines generated by di-pyoperator - DO NOT CHANGE (Deleted again when uploaded.)
from utils.mock_di_api import mock_api
api = mock_api(__file__)

def on_input(msg) :

	out_msg = None
	api.send('output',out_msg)


api.set_port_callback('input',on_input)

```
For each inport the callback-call and the callback-function is created (naming convention:'on_'<port>).  The first 3-lines of the script with the import of the mock-di-api package is going to be deleted once it is uploaded. 

## script_test File

For the standalone testing of the operator a separate file is created that imports the callback-functions of the operator. Although it will be uploaded to Data Intelligence it will not used there. The config parameters are read from the configSchema.json (datatype) and the operator.json (default value).

```
import script
from utils.mock_di_api import mock_api
from utils.operator_test import operator_test
        
api = mock_api(__file__)
optest = operator_test(__file__)

# config parameter 
api.config.person1 = 'Peter Nowhere'    # datatype : string
api.config.person2 = 'Odua Any'    # datatype : string
api.config.score = 3   # datatype : integer

msg = api.Message(attributes={'operator':'person.connectness'},body=None)
on_input(msg)
```

## operator_test

For the standalone testing of an operator you need input data of the format specified in the operator.json 'inports' attribute. Commonly used formats are the file-data (provided by the 'Read File' operator) or message.table : 

* message.file 
* message.table

To support these there are methods of the operator_test class that reads csv-data from the folder ```testdata/<operator>/<testfile.csv>:

* ```get_file(<testfile.csv>)``` -> byte-code
* ```get_msgtable(<testfile.csv>)``` -> message with table attributes and 2-dim data array.

This is only a start and can be extended. Be careful when using the cmd ```yo di-operator --init``` any changes to operator_test are overwritten. h



## Support

I am using this tool myself and have therefore an intrinsic motivation for improving the code and extending it with useful features. Nonetheless my main job is a Product Manager for SAP Data Intelligence.  Having said this please raise an issue when you face one but have some patience.  

Admittedly I am not an experienced nodejs-developer yet (or better this was my first bigger nodejs-project) and thus the code organization has some room for improvement. Any help here is much appreciated. Another conviction: writing javascript has intensified my love of Python ;). 
